# Proteus

This is a repository for the paper "Proteus: A Pipelined NTT Architecture Generator" (https://ia.cr/2023/267). 

It includes a tool to generate parametric Radix-2 Single-path Delay Feedback (SDF) and Multi-path Delay Commutator (MDC) architectures for FPGAs.

This repository provides the source code of Proteus, a tool to generate parametric Radix-2 Single-path Delay Feedback (SDF) and Multi-path Delay Commutator (MDC) architectures for FPGAs.

All content of this repo is for academic research use only. It does not come with any support, warranty, or responsibility.

# Structure of this Repo

The repository is structured into two main folders, namely `toolchain` and `vivado_projects`. The first folder `toolchain` contains all source code files to generate test vectors via python (`toolchain`) as well as all Verilog/SystemVerilog files required to generate a Radix-2 SDF or MDC architecture (`hw`). The second folder `vivado_projects` contains the project files for Radix-2 SDF and MDC. 

# Parameters of Proteus

We have declared all of the parameters within the header file `proteus/toolchain/hw/parameters.vh`. The user can adopt a variety of parameters depending on the use case, like `LOGQ`, `LOGN`, `TYPE_RED`, `IS_Q_FIXED`, `Q`, and many more. A list of all parameters can be found in the table below. 

| NAME | TYPE | VALUE |
|---|---|---|
| LOGQ | int | >=16 |
| LOGN | int | >=2 |
| TYPE_RED | int | 0=SPARSE; 1=WORD-LEVEL MONTGOMERY |
| IS_Q_FIXED | int | 0=FIXED, 1=VARIABLE |
| Q | int | f.e. 28'd268369921, 64'd9223372036855300097, ... |
| BTF_GS | int | 0=Cooley-Tukey, 1=Gentleman-Sande |
| DELAY-SPECIFIC |
| - DELAY_ADD | int | >=1 (must be the same as DELAY_SUB) |
| - DELAY_SUB | int | >=1 (must be the same as DELAY_ADD) |
| - DELAY_MUL | int | >=1 |
| - DELAY_RED | int | >=1 |
| - DELAY_DIV2 | int | >=1 |
| - DELAY_BRAM | int | >=1 |
| - DELAY_BROM | int | >=1 |
| - DELAY_FIFO | int | >=1 |
| DSP-SPECIFIC |
| - DSP_W | int | 24<=x<=28 (in case of Xilinx FPGA) |
| - DSP_H | int | 14 (in case of Xilinx FPGA) |
| MONTGOMERY-SPECIFIC |
| - W | int | >=1 (word size) |
| - L | int | >=1 (montgomery loop count (calculated as $ceil(LOGQ/W)) |
| - MULLAT | int | >=1 (latency of multiply and add units) |
| - ADDPIP | int | 0 (0: adders are pipelined into 64-bit chunks, 1: adders are not pipelined) |
| - R_w | int | (must be multiplied with output of montgomery reduction unit) |
| - TOTAL_LATENCY | int | (Summation of all the latencies above) |


All of these parameters can be adapted by the user. The user must take care of a correct adaption in case of changing submodules with self-created sub-modules, like adders, multipliers, and others. 

# Example of generated architecture via Proteus

Proteus takes its parameters before synthesizing the target architecture. Specifically, for SDF and MDC architectures, it takes 

  (i) polynomial parameters (polynomial size n and coefficient modulus size log_2(q),
  
  (ii) type of butterfly unit (CT, GS or unified) that enables NTT configurations OP1 to OP8, 
  
  (iii) type of modular reduction method (parametric Montgomery unit or user-defined add-shift based unit for constant prime). For a given parameter set, it generates a synthesizable NTT architecture

In the case of Radix2 SDF, the architecture will look like the figure presented below:

-> TODO add Figure1

In the case of Radix2 MDC, the architecture will look like the figure presented below:

-> TODO add Figure2

A more detailed overview of all the submodules can be found within our paper.

# Running Proteus

## Run python scripts

We prepared a toolchain that can be used to verify the functionality of the generated hardware. To generate your own test cases for a certain architecture and option you need to execute:

``
/bin/python3 /home/fhirner/Desktop/proteus/toolchain/py/ntt_demo.py <NTT_TYPE> <RADIX_TYPE> <OP> <LOGN> <LOGQ> <REDUCTION_TYPE>
``

In the case of Radix-2 MDC OP 5 with a polynomial-size of 2^4 and a coefficient size of 64-bit that uses an add-shift-based modular reduction; use: 

``
/bin/python3 /home/fhirner/Desktop/proteus/toolchain/py/ntt_demo.py NORMAL MDC 5 4 64 ADDSHIFT
``


## Run Vivado projects

We already prepared a Vivado project for each option of Proteus to simplify usage. You first have to source all Vivado-related scripts via 

``
source /opt/Xilinx/Vivado/2019.1/settings64.sh
source /opt/Xilinx/SDK/2019.1/settings64.sh
``

After sourcing all related scripts you need to start with the appropriate project file. This can be done by using:  

``
vivado -source vivado_projects/sdf/ntt_op_1_2/project_1/project_1.xpr
``

The command above starts Vivado with Radix-2 SDF options 1 and 2, which can take up to a few seconds. Now you can either start a simulation, synthesis, or implementation run. If you want to use the test cases generated by the toolchain to verify the behavior you just need to click `Run Simulation` on the left toolbar of vivado. This will open a simulation form that runs the simulation behavior. We already prepared a waveform to simplify the process.


# Contributors

Florian Hirner - `florian.hirner@iaik.tugraz.at`

Ahmet Can Mert - `ahmet.mert@iaik.tugraz.at`

Sujoy Sinha Roy - `sujoy.sinharoy@iaik.tugraz.at`

-----

The Authors are affiliated with the [Institute of Applied Information Processing and Communications](https://www.iaik.tugraz.at/), Graz University of Technology, Austria
